Electric vehicle (EV) technology is now widely regarded as a key component of the answer to reduce reliance on fossil fuels due to the pressing need for pollution reduction and increased energy efficiency. The widespread adoption of electric cars is, however, severely hampered by the lack of electric vehicle charging stations, especially in the agricultural sector where switching to electric tractors has the potential to completely transform sustainability. In order to overcome the shortage of charging infrastructure, this paper suggests an inventive Electric Tractor Charging Architecture that mixes Conventional and Renewable energy sources. The framework ensures a steady and effective power supply for electric tractor charging stations by combining the sustainability of renewable energy sources with the dependability of conventional energy, thereby lowering the carbon footprint of agriculture. 
An optional community charging and swapping hub that was constructed as part of corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a special feature that offers farmers a central location for collaboration and strengthens their commitment to social and environmental responsibility. The primary goal of the project is to solve the issue of the scarcity of charging stations in rural regions by establishing a decentralized infrastructure for charging directly on farms. The system is technologically compatible to support different electric tractor models and changing industry requirements, and it is scalable, ensuring adaptation to the expanding adoption of electric tractors. It was developed with the feedback from various stakeholders and case studies done at various field surveys. The same is discussed in brief in the work. Regulatory compliance remains a priority and this the proposed solution framework is built accordingly. The solution framework is modelled in MATLAB Simulink and the simulation results were validated. A corresponding Proof of concept (PoC) has been developed and tested in a miniature level. The final results, efficiency and further plans are discussed in brief. This work is done by the student authors as a part of Internship project for the specialization coursework – “Electric Vehicles” offered by the institution in collaboration with “Mahindra and Mahindra – Technical Academy”. Industry experts reviewed and gave enough feedback for the development of the solution framework.
